[Upbeat Music]
One thing I found with after writing it
for maybe two and a half years now is I feel like
it makes me a better job descriptive developer
because sometimes things in react seem a little bit harder
than they should be but I think as a rule of thumb,
there are some weird things in it, but at a rule of thumb
I think that those are forcing me to
become a much better job descript developer.
So what we're going to do right now is talk
about something called PropTypes and now
with prop types every time you have a component,
you are often passing in some sort of data and
how do you pass data into a component?
With props.
Well with PropTypes we can sort of validate the data
that is being passed in to make sure we're passing
the right kind of data that it's looking for and
the data is being passed in that it actually looks
the way that we're expecting it to be passed in.
So what we're going to do is let's open up our
header.js here and you'll notice that
we use props.tagline right here.
Now if I was on a team doing react components and
I built this thing then I handed it off to somebody else
to use it, how do they know that this component called
header takes a prop called tagline then
that prop is a string, right?
Other than the short of opening it up,
they don't really know that unless I have some
sort of documentation.
So what prop types allows us to do is specify ahead of time
what needs to be passed in when it's used and
if someone doesn't pass in the right type of data or
the right amount of data, then we're going to give them
a warning in their console telling them that
they failed their PropType.
So what we're going to do is we're going to go up here
and we're going to import PropTypes capital P capital T
from and this is in a separate package called prop-types.
This used to be built into react, however,
because some users use other ways to do type checking
so some other ways your can do type checking is
you can use a typed language to write your java script
like TypeScript or you can use one of Facebook's utilities
called Flow, which allows you to ahead of time declare
what the props are that are being passed in and then
PropTypes are sort of a third way we can do it.
That's why it's in a separate package because
it's not every project that will be using PropTypes.
So we'll go down here, we'll take our header and
we will add the propTypes, so this is lowercase P,
capital T and that's just going to be an object.
Now all you have to do now is pass at every single prop
that you need and in our case, it's just tagline, and
then you tell it which type you're expecting.
The way that we do that is just say PropTypes.,
and then we tell it, this is kind of cool,
my auto complete is showing me, um,
all of the possible option and
this should always be passed in as a string and then you can
also tack in an optional is required onto the end,
which will tell you if it's required or not.
So if I give a save now and I go back and
open up my devtools, you'll see there's nothing showing up
in here but if I were to go into my app.js and take off
the tagline prop, watch what's gonna happen.
Now it starts to yell at us, prop tagline is marked
as required in header but it's value is undefined
so that means you did not pass a tagline prop, good.
Well what if I were to say maybe the tagline
is equal to true?
Like we're passing it as a Boolean, it's going
to start complaining at us.
It got a Boolean but it was expecting a string, right?
Or if I pass in a number, it's going to yell at us
for we got a number but we were expecting you
to give us a string.
You kind of get the point here.
As you use it, before I even have to crack open this file
to see what's wrong, it will give me a really good warning
in the console.
Now, these will not make it to production.
So for whatever reason, if you deploy this to production,
it's not going to give you this error.
It's just sort of a development helper that we have.
So I'm going to bring that tagline back here and
what we're going to do now is go
through all our different components we that have written
in this course so far and start writing props for them.
So there's some documentation here for what the different
types of PropTypes are, obviously, you have all of the types
that come along with react.
So array, bool and func, I guess those are reserved words
in JavaScript so you have to use bool instead of Boolean
and func instead of function.
The rest of them are what you'd expect.
However, you can also expect somebody
to pass you another component, you can expect people
to pass you a note or an element.
You can expect to pass one of the things.
So it could either be a string, number or an instance
of the message component and then there's another one here.
This is the shape.
This is what we're going to use, as well.
Cause I find this one particularly helpful when passing
objects that need to look a certain way.
So let's go, um, let's just go into fish.js and let's just
do that one first.
So at the top of it, we'll import PropTypes
from prop-types
and you notice how I out that above this?
I always like to import my MPM packages first then
import my, uh, relative paths after that and then
they don't have to mix and match them.
Then what we'll do is, since this is not a, like this one,
what's the name for this type of component?
It's a stateless functional component, we need to do it
after the fact, like this.
Now, this one is a regular react component so we can simply
just put a static property called propTypes
and put an object on it.
The reason why that is static is because we're declaring
the PropTypes for all of the fish and every single time
that we make a new fish, it's not necessary
to duplicate those PropTypes to every single one,
if they're going to be exactly the same
for every single component.
So by putting it static, it sort of lives
on the momma fish component and we are unnecessarily
copying the PropTypes to every single instance,
since they're going to be exactly the same.
Now, uh, what are the props that we have here?
Well,
we are passing in and the way you can tell is I was
just like search for this.props and we've got
this.props.details and add to order.
So I'll go up here we'll say details
and we need add to order.
So let's do add to order first,
since that's going to be very simple.
Let's look here.
It's going to be a function.
So we'll take this PropTypes.func and then the details
is going to be, well what is it gonna be?
Details is going to have the image, the name, the price,
the description and the status.
This is a little bit weird.
Of course, we could go and say PropTypes.object
and it would pass with flying colors, see no errors there.
But that's a bit of a cheat because like that's just
saying you pass in any object and this would not work
if I didn't pass in an object that consisted
of these five things.
So what we can do instead of saying an object,
we can give it a PropTypes.shape and a shape is a function
that accepts an object and these are where we're going
to specify what all of the different properties
actually are, so we have an image, name, price,
description and status and I'm going to move price
to the bottom here because all of these are going
to be pretty simple.
It's going to be PropTypes.string
and then price is going to be a number.
I really like this one.
I probably used this one the most out of everything
because when I'm passing values to a component,
it's almost always I'm passing an object an object full
of data that needs to be displayed.
So that's why I like to pass it as a shape and then
it checks that the object you are sending it will have
all of these properties with these being types added in.
Good, so that is fish and if you'd like to pause this video
and just go through and do them yourselves, I think you'd
kind of get the point.
I'll go through them together in case you want to hang on
and listen to the rest.
Otherwise, really the thing that you need to know
is whenever you write this.props.something you should
stop and write a PropType for it really quickly.
The cheesy thing I always say is stop, drop and prop
and [Laughs] you're gonna be in good shape and
probably save yourself a headache somewhere down the road
where you forget to pass in the right amount of data.
So if you are leaving me now, goodbye, I'll see you
in the next video.
Otherwise, let's keep going through the rest of them.
Next up is the add fish form
and we'll say this.props.addFish is one.
It's gonna search for the rest.
That's it.
So addFish is the only one.
We're gonna go up here
say static propTypes.
I always goof up the casing of it.
So it's lowercase P capital case T and
then the package is capital P, capital T.
So import PropTypes from
prop-types
and then we here, we need PropTypes.func.
I always make sure I give it a reload and
it still works just fine, good.
Let's go through the rest of them.
App.js doesn't have any props, you could well this.props
you could assume that the props.match is coming in
from the router, so in that case, we could either
shape it out for the pieces that we need or
just say it's an object.
So in this case, I will just say it's an object.
Good and then make sure you import it
at the top of your file.
I'm gonna put it right underneath importing react.
Good, so it's app EditFishForm is next.
So we've got this.props.fish .updatefish and index.
We'll go here,
make this a bit bigger.
So what did I say, we got fish, we got index
and we've got updateFish.
Good.
Import my prop types
and then for each of these I'm going to have PropTypes.
Dot and then we'll go through each of them.
First one is going to be a shape where the fish will contain
again, this is like kind of the same thing.
So you could even put these in their own file and
import and export them if you find yourself using
it much more often.
So fish.js is where I've used those before just go ahead
and take that entire shape object and paste it in here.
Index is going to be a string and updateFish is
going to be a func.
Good, we still in good shape?
Oop, I got an error on EditFishForm on line 14.
What did I do?
A colon, there we go.
Still working good for me.
With edit we did fish, we did header, inventory.
So this.props.fishes
and so we got fished, updateFish,
deleteFish and loadSampleFishes.
Lowercase P.
So fishes is going to be an array.
The rest of them are functions.
Oop, we got an error.
Invalid, oh, it's not an array, it's an object.
Good and of course you can go a little deeper
and shape those out.
Uh, not found has nothing, order.
Let's take the PropTypes package, import that right away.
This.props, so we got fishes, we got order,
we got removeFromOrder and that's it.
So fishes is going to be an object.
Order is going to be an object and
removeFromOrder is a func.
Still looking good.
Router doesn't have any props and
store picker needs history.
Beautiful, got all my prop types now being pulled in
and, uh, I made my application a little but more resilient
so I know that I'm passing in both the right data
as well as in the right type of data.